# 30. Gaul

In Roman times, the wisdom of India and the goodness of ancient Persia
had gone, and all there was, specially in Rome, was
a feeling that the
gods were powerful, and the more powerful a man was, the more he
was like a god.
But there was one country, a very small country, which was different:
the land of the people whom Moses had thousands of years earlier led
out of Egypt, the "promised" land, the land of Palestine.
which said (like the religion of Zarathustra) that God wants human beings to be good, that before God goodness alone counts, not power.
their gods because a god must be a powerful being. The Jews called God
all-powerful, but they also called him a God of Mercy, they worshipped
his goodness, much more than his power.
The Roman general Pompey who, together with the rich man Crassus,
made a secret pact with Julius Caesar, also craved for power. He had
found
another way of becoming popular with the people of Rome: he
did not give them free entertainment as Julius Caesar did, but he conquered more countries for Rome. The Romans liked a general who had
great victories, who spread the power of Rome wider and wider.
the Israelites, for Rome. The Jews fought bravely for their homeland, but
they were no match for the might of the Roman armies. And so Pompey
brought the Holy Land, Palestine, under Roman power, and Roman soldiers marched through the streets of Jerusalem, the Holy City.
Other nations that had been conquered by the Romans in time accepted Roman rule, they copied Roman manners and Roman customs,
they even worshipped the Roman gods. But not the Jews. The Jews always hated the Roman masters, they did not imitate Roman customs -
and they worshipped only the one God who had given the ten commandments to Moses.
But whether the people of Palestine liked it or not, did not matter to
the Romans. They were proud that another country had been added to
their conquests, and they praised Pompey and called him Pompey the

Great.
Even though Julius Caesar had a secret pact with Crassus and with
Pompey, there was no real friendship between the three men. And Caesar was not at all happy to hear Pompey praised for his conquests. He
had to show the Romans that he too could make conquests, that he was
a general as good or even better than Pompey. And so Caesar asked the
Senators to give him command of an army for the conquest of a great
country northwest of Italy, the great country of Gaul, the country which
is now called France.
The Senators thought it was a good idea to get such a dangerous man
as Julius Caesar away from Rome. As long as he was marching and fighting far away from Rome he could not cause any trouble in Rome. So
Julius Caesar was given an army and marched north to conquer Gaul.
The people who had only known Caesar as a man who lived in comfort
and luxury in Rome would have been very surprised if they had seen him
with his army. When his soldiers marched, he did not ride on his horse,
but walked beside them (and it was long, fast marching in the Roman
army), he ate no other food than the common soldiers, and in any battle
you could find Caesar where the fighting was hardest.
Once in a rainstorm Caesar was taking shelter in a little hut on the
roadside, when he saw a wounded man carried by his comrades on a
stretcher. Caesar immediately gave orders that the wounded man
should be put into the hut, and as there was not enough room he himself slept outside in the rain with his soldiers.
These kind of things made Caesar very popular with the common soldiers, they loved the general who shared their dangers and their discomfort. But the officers did not like it at all. They did not like to march when
they had horses to ride, they did not like the plain food of the common
soldier, but they had to do as Caesar did, and they grumbled.
the order that all his troops, his whole army should assemble, should be
on parade. When they were all standing in ranks before him, each legion
with their own officers, he spoke to the grumbling officers and said that
spoilt weaklings were no use to him and that any officer or common soldier who was afraid of long marches and hard fighting had his permission to creep back to Rome. "But," so said Caesar, "I will keep one legion