---
aliases:
  - "文法動詞--現在、過去、未來2022c9g"
tags:
  - wiki/英文
  - wiki/教學
  - wiki/文法
type: 教學素材
subject: 英文
teacher: 林信宏
source: my-pages-wiki
---

The House I Am Living in Now

When I was a little boy, my family moved so often that I can’t remember how many times we had moved. At age 12, we finally had a house of our own and that means we didn’t have to pay the rent. Now I am 46 going to 47. I love visiting different kinds of houses. The house I am living in right now is the fifth house I own. It is funny to see that even when I am a grown-up, my family still move a lot. However, I don’t think I will stop moving. My dream is to build a house from the beginning. Someday, I am going to buy a small piece of land and will design the house bit by bit. Then maybe…just maybe, that will be my last time moving. But who knows?
The House I Am Living in Now

When I was a little boy, my family moved so often that I can’t remember how many times we had moved. At age 12, we finally had a house of our own and that means we didn’t have to pay the rent. Now I am 46 going to 47. I love visiting different kinds of houses. The house I am living in right now is the fifth house I own. It is funny to see that even when I am a grown-up, my family still move a lot. However, I don’t think I will stop moving. My dream is to build a house from the beginning. Someday, I am going to buy a small piece of land and will design the house bit by bit. Then maybe…just maybe, that will be my last time moving. But who knows?

Look these sentences in a sense of GRAMMAR on VERBs.

It was my great-grandmother’s name and now it is mine.
And the story goes she never forgave him.
She looked out the window her whole life.
I have inherited her name, but I don’t want to inherit her place by the window.
She is just my sister and that was not my fault.
This was the house Papa talked about when he held a lottery ticket.
This was the house Mama dreamed up in the stories she told us before we went to bed.
The windows are so small that you would think they were holding their breath. 
Someday I will have a friend who I can tell my secrets to.
Someday I will have a friend who will understand my jokes without my having to explain them.
I am a red balloon, a balloon which is tied to an anchor.