---
aliases:
  - "c9完成式文法講義1"
tags:
  - wiki/英文
  - wiki/教學
  - wiki/文法
type: 教學素材
subject: 英文
teacher: 林信宏
source: my-pages-wiki
---

Hello, my name is Steve. We are having a busy day today, because my grandparents are going to visit us soon. We have a lot of household chores to do. Luckily everyone is helping each other and sharing the work.
I have just given a short break to have a cup of tea and rest. I have helped my mom with the laundry and taken out the garbage so far. I have also cleaned my room and placed all my books on the bookshelves. I have fed our dog, Cooper but I haven’t washed him yet because there isn’t any shampoo left. I need to go to supermarket and buy some.
My father Henry is working in the garden now. He has wiped all the windows and mowed the lawn. He hasn’t watered the trees as it was rainy all day yesterday. He has washed our
car and planted new red roses into the pots. He hasn’t cleaned the bathroom yet. I think he will do it after lunch.
My mom, Julie has vacuumed the floor, done the laundry and cooked lunch for us. She has also done some ironing, but she hasn’t washed the dishes yet. I think she will do it later today.
My sisters, Shirley and Diane have dusted all the furniture and mopped the floor. They have cleaned the toilet and folded the clothes. They are having a break just like me now as they are exhausted.
I love helping my family with the household chores and I’m glad that there is a perfect cooperation between all the family members. Now that I have finished my cup of tea I have to go to the supermarket for Cooper’s shampoo and some bread. Bye for now!

1.Why are Steve and the family members busy today? 
______________________________________________________ .
2. Who has taken the rubbish out? ______ _________________________________ .
3. Why hasn’t Steve washed the dog yet? _________________________________ .
4. Has Henry planted new red roses yet? _________________________________ .
5. Who has wiped all the windows? ______ _________________________________ .
6. What has Julie done so far? _________ _________________________________ .
7. Have Shirley and Diane set the table yet? _________________________________ .
8. Who has folded the clothes and cleaned the toilet? ________________________ _________________________________ .
9. Has Steve finished all his work for today? _________________________________ .
